
In the year of 2024, the unprecedented growth of social media knows no bounds, new platforms emerge daily and gain traction — all to become pertinent forms for the public sphere to thrive in, where public debate and information is available readily — especially on global issues, ranging from social media justice on poverty, social class, and climate change. Over the years, discourse related to climate change has been shaped by many mediums of the public sphere — newspapers, television, political leaders, public figures, academic journals and now, social media platforms. Each of these influences public perception in their own different way. A study done by Anderson (2009) showed us how ‘traditional’ media types (newspapers etc.) shape the public's perception of climate change, focusing more on the scientific uncertainty and political controversy associated with it. However, with the rise of social media in recent years, the type of discourse and its perception have been heavily altered and broadened the scope of discussion. Social media sites with public forums, such as Reddit, have given the people a place to voice out their unfiltered thoughts and opinions, with little to no regulation. It is a democratized form of platform, as described by (O'Neill et al., 2015). It is pertinent to notice this shift in discussion platforms, as important as it is to notice that the shift in platforms and voices heard have a significant impact in the conversation of climate change, which ultimately leads to policy change and community action.
Research conducted by Cody et al. (2015) shows us that different perceptions and narratives lead to different sentiment and polarities on social media platforms (conducted by case studies on Twitter and Facebook) and how these scores show correlation with public engagement —
leading to the conclusion that different types of topics within a sub-topic — in this case, climate change and its subtopics or “subreddits” resonate differently with various communities. Contextually, Reddit is a public forum social media platform with ‘subreddits’, akin to subtopics or subcultures of communities where individuals can post their opinions via a personal post or a comment, all of which are public. With that noted, it is important to remember that few studies have intrinsically elaborated on why this dynamic exists in the digital sphere, especially on open ended platforms such as Reddit. This research paper aims to fill that gap by providing valuable insights into how topics pertaining to climate change resonate within Reddit, a relatively unexplored platform. The paper will do so by exploring different types of natural language processing techniques such as topic modeling and sentiment analysis. The primary goal is to understand the sentiment and subjectivity of discussions around climate change on social media platforms, specifically focusing on how these discussions reflect public opinion and perceptions, and to explore the differences in sentiment and engagement within discussions about climate change across various subreddit communities. To see whether certain subreddits exhibit more positive or negative sentiments and how the engagement might be associated with these sentiments and the specific topics discussed.
